Client "R", Session January 23, 2014: Client discusses meditation, gurus, and transference and counter-transferenceness in relationships.
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:

BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:

THERAPIST: Hi.

CLIENT: Hi. Yes?

THERAPIST: So, scheduling. I’m out Monday. (pause) I could meet Tuesday at 10 or Wednesday at 10:45 or 12.

[00:01:08]

CLIENT: Can I let you know today, later? Or tomorrow?

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Okay. Tuesday at 10, Wednesday at 10:45 or 12.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Okay. (pause) Cool. (very long pause)

[00:09:58]

Do you think anyone else in the whole world understands this? (long pause)

[00:10:58]

THERAPIST: I guess you sense that they don’t. (long pause)

CLIENT: In a way. (long pause) In a way, it’s nice to think that someone else could. (pause) Because then (pause) I think I would have another friend [in it]. (long pause)

[00:14:17]

I guess I’m under the impression that no one in my world could understand that there might be plenty of people in your world who could understand. (long pause) Like who go to work and who (pause) might have an experience like this (pause) who you could talk to about it

[00:15:27]

THERAPIST: Hmm. (long pause)

[00:18:02]

CLIENT: My grandfather is really hungry for more (pause) dharma, more guidance, more teachings, more peace. And he’s excited. (pause) Like he’s discovered (pause) this beautiful field of wildflowers or something inside him. (pause)

[00:19:05]

It’s very beautiful. (pause) And he’s really excited, like as if he knows that I’ve been like planting some wildflower seeds myself and tending to them, to the growing plants or something. I’ve been calling him. (pause) Just asking “Have you meditated today?” He’s very excited to talk and he’s not really much of a talker, so that’s cool. (pause)

[00:20:06]

And he like asks a lot about Meditation Center. He asks me to help him learn more. He called me his guru and I was like “Okay, stop right there.” (chuckles) “Grandpa [ph], you’re getting carried away. I’m not your guru, you’re my guru.” And he’s like “No, no, grandchildren actually make the best gurus.” That is a very enlightened view. I’ll take it. (chuckles) (pause)

[00:21:08]

And I’ve been thinking a lot about how to help him. (pause) I don’t really think it matters what I do for him, as long as it’s sort of simple and regular. I think he will come to his place with it, with just a little bit of support. But still it leaves open the question of what do I actually bring to him, like in audio form.

[00:22:00]

I’m going there this weekend. (pause) So I want to bring something to him this weekend. (pause) So Danielle [ph] gave the weekly dharma talk yesterday, and she spoke about her parents’ death. (pause) Aging, sickness and death. (pause) I’m pausing because I don’t have a clear sense of how much you remember.

THERAPIST: About what happened to her parents?

CLIENT: Yeah, and like what I told you about it.

[00:23:05]

THERAPIST: I think I remember pretty clearly.

CLIENT: Okay. (pause)

THERAPIST: About her (pause) One of them had just died recently and the other was staying with her.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: And she was sort of doing hospice. She took a break and came to deepsa [ph] class and had a feeling I don’t remember if it was her mother or her father. Her father?

CLIENT: Her mother was the second one that died.

THERAPIST: Yeah. She was going to wait until she was gone, and she got the message saying her mother had died just after the class. And she was just very open and candid [and present] about the whole thing.

[00:24:03]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. I had brought her cookies that day.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: That was three Thursdays ago. Like not the last Thursday, but the one before that.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And the next so like that whole week, I spent like all the time thinking about her. There’s like a little bit of a guided reflection that the practice groups get at the end of every class. So I would come to think of what we talked about, various ways of seeing what our quality of attention is at work, whatever we consider our work is, because that’s what the class is about. But I would come to that point and I would just think all about Danielle [ph] and her mom, and her death, and the hug, and the cookies, and the wonder of it all.

[00:25:12]

So the Thursday after she, of course, like was so grateful for me and for everybody and said some words about it and then we moved on. People were talking about their experience dealing with these things that she asked us to contemplate at work, and I didn’t really want to talk that much about how she was on my mind. But I said like “Well, I didn’t really contemplate anything about my work because, like really Danielle [ph], you and your mom and the whole thing was on my mind whenever I would go to be mindful about or like do deliberate things. Looking into what I’m like at work, I would just think about you.”

[00:26:08]

And I said that I don’t know too much about it and don’t really want to go into it in the class, but that I think it’s an important thing about me, that’s how I was relating to it. And she was touched by it and also I think it sort of, I don’t know, opened something between us where she said “Maybe we could talk about it sometime” and I said “Sure.” And then at the end of that class, she said goodbye to me and she said “If you would ever like to have an interview with me, I would be happy to.” (pause) Do you get that term?

[00:27:14]

THERAPIST: I was just going to ask you about it.

CLIENT: It’s so weird. Maybe like when I actually have one, I’ll know why it’s called an interview. But that’s the sort of dharma-way of like meeting with your teacher. It’s like you schedule an interview with this teacher or like you have regular interviews with your teacher.

THERAPIST: I see.

CLIENT: That’s what they call it there. It’s so weird. Like it must be a translation.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: But maybe it’s like an interview, I don’t know. So it’s like the way that you meet with a teacher privately at Meditation Center. Like you meet there at your scheduled time, and it’s sort of organized by the office there. So that brought up so much for me when she asked me that.

[00:28:12]

But in any case (pause) I will get back to that. But she and I have been talking more and more like privately, like small talk and checking in, since her mom died. So she gave the weekly talk last night and she spoke all about her parents, and she was sort of direct with me in the class and made eye contact and smiled. Of course, I’m in the front row and there’s like 70 people there, and I’m like sort of this I think I probably came across as sort of this panting puppy or something. (chuckles)

[00:29:03]

So Danielle [ph] made eye contact with me and she said “I don’t think I can deliver everything that I promise.” She had said to me that she was probably going to talk about her parents at this talk. She had the talk and it was wonderful. She’s very casual and she’s very wants to hear what comes up for people and check in often, so I got to hear from 15 people over the course of an hour and a half. People have a lot in them about death and sickness, and there is this wonderful way of like asking us to consider being very clear-minded about how uncertain sickness and aging and death are, like the timing of it. But how certain the reality of it is, the fact that it will happen. (pause)

[00:30:18]

It was very funny. She talked about her parents quite a bit, but it was also a general sort of putting out there of lots of stuff and asking us to just notice what comes up. I think there’s this practice of contemplating aging and sickness and death as part of the practice.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And that seemed, at least in the few moments that I had yesterday, like having tasted what the practice would be like. It seems so enlivening because I’m not dead now.

[00:31:15]

But somehow thinking very clearly that I will die makes the current moment feel special. (long pause) There is also this sense that like there are these teachings that like aging, sickness and death are like these treasures in this practice because they sort of are the most they allow us or give us the opportunity to connect with suffering in the most sort of, whatever, painful, meaningful, vivid, visceral way.

[00:32:30]

And like a connection to suffering, like a holding of it or coming close to it, bearing it, seeing it in all of its different forms, and then moving through it, is like one way of thinking about awakening. (pause) Or like one way of experiencing joy in the way that this practice makes possible. (long pause)

[00:33:45]

Also, like aging and sickness and death really shake people out of their conditioning. (pause) (sighing) It’s all very interesting. I asked Danielle [ph] at the end of the class I talked to her about my grandfather. I said “He’s just totally hungry. He’s 89, he’s had all this bad stuff happen, and he’s realized how bad how much he’s been carrying around and how hurtful it has been, and he wants to practice and I don’t know what to give him.” And she looked at me and she said “Joseph Goldstein. He doesn’t have much time left. Joseph Goldstein is the only person I would go to, like his stuff.”

[00:34:54]

I was like “Okay, Joseph Goldstein it is.” (pause) I’m not sure why, but I’ll find out. (pause) Have you heard of him? I’ve only heard his name in passing.

THERAPIST: I might have heard his name in passing, but [I don’t know about him]. (long pause)

[00:35:56]

CLIENT: Jay, do you think you’ll ever go to Meditation Center?

THERAPIST: Hmm. (long pause) I have a funny thought about the initials.

CLIENT: Yeah?

THERAPIST: “See I am, see?”

CLIENT: (chuckles) (long pause)

[00:37:00]

Do you think you’ll ever go to “See I am, see?” (chuckles) (pause) I think you go to Meditation Center in that sense all the time.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles) I don’t think there’s anything there about me to see that you won’t see here.

THERAPIST: I guess I was thinking of seeing you somewhere else.

CLIENT: Right. (pause) Yeah, I think it’s pretty seductive to like think about seeing each other somewhere else. So that falls into that fantasy.

[00:38:09]

But no, I want to know. I’m not particularly interested whether you’re going to go there when I’m there. (pause) I want to know if you think you’ll go there.

THERAPIST: Hmm. (long pause)

[00:39:35]

CLIENT: It’s kind of like asking, which I may have asked but I’ll ask again, if you think you’ll ever go to Italy.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: (pause) It’s important to me, I think, that you go. Not that you go with me or even that I’m there.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: (pause) So what were you thinking about when I just spoke? Right before I spoke? You were smiling.

THERAPIST: I think just your question. (pause)

[00:40:31]

CLIENT: [That’s sweet. It’s a sweet question].

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. It is. (long pause) I guess I hear it somewhat as, will I ever be lost in you as you are in me? (long pause)

[00:42:05]

CLIENT: I hope so. (long pause) My eyes hurt.

THERAPIST: (pause) That’s too bad.

CLIENT: Hmm?

THERAPIST: That’s too bad.

CLIENT: Yeah, it’s distracting. (pause)

[00:43:11]

It’s also like, will you ever come to meet my other container or something like that.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: And, of course, like (pause) I imagine what you said last time at the end of the day the containers were like vessels. They will be one in the same or like they’re both both about (inaudible at 00:44:12). (pause)

[00:44:22]

THERAPIST: I don’t think that’s true in all ways. But in the context of what we were talking about at the time, I think that’s true.

CLIENT: I see. (long pause) So I wonder in what ways you don’t think in what ways you’re talking about.

THERAPIST: (pause) I think when it comes to things like dealing with emotions or emotions in relationships, there’s a lot of overlap.

[00:45:33]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: And things like [thoughts and symptoms]. (long pause)

CLIENT: There’s a lot of overlap?

THERAPIST: I think so.

CLIENT: And where there’s not overlap?

THERAPIST: (pause) I don’t I mean, I think that meditation practice brings you to a different place than therapy psychoanalysis does. (long pause)

[00:46:47]

The other difference is that I don’t feel more like (inaudible at 00:46:56). There a lot of things that therapy or analysis can provide in general. Meditation probably does it a [little better]. It’s tricky because if you think about a relationship with a teacher and what type of practice you’re doing, you know.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: But I’m not sure that’s true. (long pause)

CLIENT: (sighing) (long pause)

[00:48:18]

It gets very seductive to [think about you and] your practice.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (long pause)

[00:49:27]

I’m going back a little bit but I’ll be brief. I think psychoanalysis is pretty much for neurotic suffering, whereas meditation is for a broader scope of suffering as well, like [suffering the condition of existence] which goes beyond just neurotic suffering.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: But I also think that psychoanalysis has some benefits for helping people with neurotic suffering that probably will work better, at least at certain stages, for a fair number of people than meditation.

CLIENT: Do you think that’s because people don’t commit the same way when they’re alone as when they’re in a relationship?

[00:50:32]

THERAPIST: I think it may be part of it. I guess what I have in mind more is like there’s something a little easier for two people to bear or that one person, at least for a while, you know, requires the help of someone else -

CLIENT: Uh huh.

THERAPIST: to bear. [I don’t mean anything that fancy]. Just like, you know, if there are times I point out things it seems to me you’re avoiding or that are harder to tolerate. I think sometimes it can be easier to work with stuff like that that’s kind of on the edge with someone else who is helping that way.

[00:51:25]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: (pause) And providing more of a perspective. (long pause) I’m sorry, you were saying that it’s seductive to think about my practice. (pause)

[00:52:25]

CLIENT: I’m going to respond to what you were saying.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: (pause) I think there’s something (long pause) I think there’s something about the two person, two people holding (pause) or like holding and creating a sort of third unconscious or like holding and bringing light to like a third being that’s like not you.

[00:53:45]

That’s like not in my awareness or in your awareness but like comes into our joint awareness that is very special. Special in that sentimental sense, but also unique to this method of dealing with suffering. Whereas I think I think there are ways to sort of see the edge of one’s consciousness, just like come to the edge of one’s awareness in a meditation practice. (pause)

[00:54:53]

And then like sort of hold that third not third, because there is not another person hold that second (pause) being as it comes into awareness and then it’s like part of me again. Do you know what I’m saying? I think it’s possible to like get to that edge in meditation practice, but there’s not (pause) Because it’s just my awareness, there’s only so much I can do with it.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And when you have a whole other person involved, there is just so much more there’s more space for it, and there’s more creative potential for it. Two minds are two minds. (pause)

[00:56:12]

THERAPIST: I think meditation teachers can do that too.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. (long pause) I don’t know. I don’t have that relationship. (pause)

[00:57:05]

I kind of imagine that relationship (pause) could make the overlap bigger. (pause) So Danielle [ph] asked me if I wanted to have an interview with her.

THERAPIST: Right.

CLIENT: And I was like “Thanks, sure” and then she left. (pause) It’s like very polarizing or it’s very confusing [to the things I brought up] and it’s similar (pause)

[00:58:09]

It’s just like dependency like fierce dependency, fierce [like pigeon], which I’m beginning to see is like they’re part of the same thing. It’s just like this duel. Like when I’m at home, I’m like wanting no space between me and them, and I really want a lot of attention, a lot of support. And then when I’m at my parents’ home, for example, I could care less if I had space or not from them, or like I want a lot of space from them. And here, the same thing comes up. (pause)

[00:59:04]

Or at least earlier on I felt like I was I was sort of like trying to take over always, or I’m sort of like desperately or feeling desperately pleading. But anyway, it’s confusing because they feel like part of the same (pause) underlying anxiety. (sighing)

So, I felt like Danielle [ph] like I felt flattered and I felt warm and I felt welcomed. And also practically, I felt like yeah, I do want to talk to her about how much she and her mom and that experience was on my mind.

[1:00:07]

I think that would be I think that would be very nice. I think it would be useful, and I think it would help me. But then I also felt like, what is she trying to do? Like what are her motives? She’s a lesbian and I have like this, she’s just attracted to me. So there’s that and then there’s like Danielle [ph] is very vulnerable. Is she like is this a weird time to be taking her up as a more intimate, private teacher? Is this weird? Is she going to take advantage of me?

[1:01:10]

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: You know, is she like reaching for connections?

THERAPIST: I see.

CLIENT: And then there’s thoughts about well, maybe I want Sashi because Sashi is older and she’s got a totally different style. (pause) And she’s sort of got this grandmotherly, very wise, very few words, very deliberate way of speaking. It’s like warm gentleness, but it’s very sort of (pause) like wizardly. (chuckles)

[1:02:07]

And Danielle [ph] is like this chirp-chirp-chirp, like she’s totally bubbly. Like she’s very laughter-filled and she’s got a lot of spunk. Anyway, so there’s like I don’t know if I want Danielle [ph], maybe I want Sashi or maybe I don’t want anyone.

So I was like thinking about this and mentioned like I hadn’t told like my mom, like my parents and Jeremy’s parents and a few friends in depth about the Danielle [ph] mom death experience. And so for some of them, I was following up. With my mom, I mentioned that Danielle [ph] had like there’s this thing called an interview and it’s maybe kind of like a student-teacher-guru thing, but I don’t really know what it is.

[1:03:12]

And I just said the word guru and I shouldn’t have said it, because it raised like all these flags for my mom. So I told my mom about it and she was like “Interesting” and she hung up. And she called two days later this is very classic. She was like chewing, chewing, and she calls and she’s like “How are you doing? What are you doing right now?”

THERAPIST: (laughter)

CLIENT: I’m like “I’m walking to the bus.” “Well, I just wanted to say, I’ve just been thinking about this, about Danielle [ph].” (chuckles)

THERAPIST: Let me just tell you when you get to the bus who is going to be driving the bus. (chuckles)

CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah.

THERAPIST: Sorry, go ahead. (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah. “Like I just wanted to “

THERAPIST: [“If I were you,” yeah.]

[01:04:04]

CLIENT: (chuckles) “I just wanted to let you know, like I’m sure Danielle [ph] is a very nice person.” (chuckles)

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: “But I just wanted to let you know what in our family we think about gurus.” I’m like “Mom, Danielle [ph] is not going to be my guru. Don’t worry.” She’s like “Okay, but just listen.”

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: It’s like we because it’s a big thing in Italy. This is like I mean, it’s land of guru-hood. It’s like everybody has somebody and it’s like this whole thing. There are all these quack aesthetics, and they’re all these people trying to follow some path of, I don’t know, like dealing with suffering. And there are a lot of crazy people out there and it’s kind of a scene.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

[01:05:07]

CLIENT: And being in a family where like I mean, being in a priestly (inaudible at 01:05:13) family, my mom and her siblings and her parents have come to form a lot of opinions about like the different ways of reaching God or whatever. Reaching the end of suffering. She’s like “We tend to not have like to pick one guru. There are a lot of people in the world who have very nice intentions, but there are a lot of people in the world who are just like crooked and like want to brainwash you. They want to take your money, and they want to have sex with you. They just like want you, and they’re driven by bad motives.

[01:06:09]

And I know that you have a very good head on your shoulders and you’re a scientist, and I know that you’re going think about this scientifically, so I know that I don’t need to be telling you this, but I just wanted to share that.”

THERAPIST: “But in no way is that going to stop me from telling you.” (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles) “But I just needed to share how we think about this, so we don’t have gurus.” I was like “Mom, that’s not true at all because you talk all the time about how your mom is your guru. You could say we don’t have any gurus, but you have one and it’s your mom.” She’s like “Yes, I do have one.” I was like “So this thing about how we don’t pick one guru is false. You just picked your mom.” She was like “But moms are different “

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: because moms really have their children’s -

THERAPIST: [You better believe it.]

CLIENT: best interests in mind.” That’s her reason for why moms are different. It’s like yeah, that’s true. I believe that. At least in the mom relationships in my family.

THERAPIST: Right. And also your best interests in their view.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. Yeah. (pause) Right. But I think her guru relationship, which is really quite studently at times, has like caused a tremendous amount of weirdness in her and in our family.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

[01:08:08]

CLIENT: Because when you like idolize and deify your mom, there’s a lot of letting go that hasn’t happened for her. (pause) “Hi, I’m Ada [ph], I’ve been thinking about this.” (chuckles) I’m remembering early on when like some of the things I’ve said, it’s pretty different about my parents.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: So, she was like “Yes, we all -” Like I think all of her siblings feel the same way about Nonnie-jee [ph].

[01:08:58]

THERAPIST: Well, I hadn’t thought about that in a while. (pause) I don’t know. I guess to me like it sort of says a lot if that’s where your mom comes from on the topic of mothers and daughters.

CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Like she was crying when she said “Yes, my mom is my guru.” Her voice cracked. Like that is the that is the symbol of goodness in the world to her.

THERAPIST: Yeah, like the picture of her devotion.

[01:09:55]

CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) With grandma saying like (pause) My mom says a lot like “I’ll leave it God. I’ll leave it to God.” And I’ve been struggling with wanting to leave things, wanting to let things go, but like not really knowing having a lot of trouble letting go, changing. Like in very small ways, but it’s changing. So I said to you I almost want it’s like more natural to me to just leave them to my mom because she’s going to leave them to God instead of finding somewhere to leave them.

[01:11:00]

And I think my mom like probably has a similar thing. I think at age five she realized, this is how she describes her spiritual path. Like she felt a pretty strong pull to where it’s like some kind of devotional practice at age five, and she learned to read Hindi so that she could read the Ramayan and she would read the Ramayan every day. I think there’s a lot of connecting to her mom in that, in all that practice. But like here I am, and I’m talking to my mom about Danielle [ph] and thinking about you, and it’s like very clear to me that I don’t have this guru relationship with my mom, though like maybe it’s more general.

[01:11:56]

Maybe like I have a little bit with both of my parents, and maybe I don’t have it to the same extent with the same balance of, whatever, feelings about it as my mom does and it’s like changing. It’s like growing and changing really it’s being very stirred up. So it was a little harder for me to hear so much emotion in that relationship for her.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And to notice the big difference in the relation that I have with her. (pause) But anyway, when you [and I’m not saying the] day I went to the Y where the boxing club is. Maybe it was on a Thursday. There were a couple of trainers there, and the boxing club is like this no-nonsense, like in the basement, basement of this super old building.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

[01:13:08]

CLIENT: It’s just like a lot of boxing bags and the beautiful ring where Muhammad Ali fought. It’s the oldest boxing club in the country.

THERAPIST: Oh.

CLIENT: And you just go and there are all these guys and some women. It’s, in general, a very nice vibe. Though I have four or five like black glom-on guys who glom onto me. But that’s another thing that’s not so comfortable, but I manage them okay. But anyway, I went to the boxing gym and there’s this trainer Dan there, and he works people out when they want to be worked out.

[01:14:03]

Like in boxing you have mitts and the other person has gloves, mitts. And so like one common way to workout with the boxing trainer is to do mitts with them. So I asked Tim if he would do mitts with me that night, like I do a lot, and he did. So you go through the boxing clocks like three minutes on and one minute off. You know?

THERAPIST: (pause) I did martial arts for a long time, and I did like some kickboxing for a while.

CLIENT: Cool. What kind of martial arts?

[01:15:03]

THERAPIST: Let’s see, I did karate and aikido and there’s a kind of kickboxing from Thailand, I did that, and Brazilian jujitsu.

CLIENT: Mmm. Do you practice any of those still? Did you like Brazilian jujitsu? It’s really cool.

THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s really cool.

CLIENT: (sighing) Brazilian jujitsu. Jeremy and I both really want to take it up.

THERAPIST: Oh really? Yeah, it’s awesome.

CLIENT: So Tim, at the end of our three rounds, said “You know, there’s this exhibition in March” and I was like “Cool, I’ll check it out.” He was like “You’ll check it out, but you won’t fight?” I was like “Uh, probably not, but I’ll think about it.”

[01:16:05]

I had the same feeling as I did when Danielle [ph] said “I’d be happy to have an interview with you.” It was like, what’s your motive, Dan? And it’s the same mix of generally feeling warm and welcome and flattered and very happy and like yeah, it would make you pretty happy to train me for that exhibition, wouldn’t it? Like I’ve never sparred and it just seemed kind of inappropriate.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: But I think I would be amazing. (chuckles) So I think he was like -

THERAPIST: But you’re very good?

CLIENT: I mean, it’s hard to say if somebody is good when they box for conditioning.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: So it’s like a whole different set of -

THERAPIST: If you haven’t sparred with somebody, yeah.

[01:17:01]

CLIENT: Yeah, it’s a completely different set of skills to spar. Complete I think it’s really different, but that said, I think I would pick it up pretty quickly and maybe that’s what he was recognizing. That I’m teachable, and curious, and learn fast, and I’m spunky, and I like hit hard.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: So maybe okay, I think one thing that’s clear is that I hit hard. But there’s a lot of footwork involved that I don’t have down at all. Anyway, I don’t want to fight in the exhibition at all. And I felt the same mix of like eww, go away. Like don’t brainwash me. Like this sort of weird, vulnerable, protective wall thing. And then when you asked me or when you shared that you I’m trying to be precise about my language.

[01:18:10]

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: When you shared that you thought that it was better to schedule another regular session rather than to go about things ad hoc, I felt the same mix.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And that’s really surprising because like all I want is to see you more.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: So I like boxing, but I don’t want to do that at all. You were talking about something that I do want.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And I felt I was like I felt some questioning of your motives.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And like it didn’t help that my mom called and talked about brainwashing and how we don’t pick gurus. It didn’t help. It sort of like -

[01:19:07]

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: I think maybe that’s where I got it from.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And it made that part much louder. (pause) And then my grandfather used the word guru on Monday -

THERAPIST: Right.

CLIENT: to talk about me.

THERAPIST: To you.

CLIENT: It’s a weird guru week. (long pause)

THERAPIST: Well, I think there are probably ways that your mom has been your guru.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

[01:20:05]

THERAPIST: Though I don’t have the sense of the ways that either of you would have talked about it. And also that there are I guess what I have in mind is the faith and devotion you have in her, among other things.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: And maybe also the dislike of difference or separation. And I think some of that also relates to you and me.

[01:21:13]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. (pause) I think the guru (pause) Okay, I really don’t what that word means. I have never thought about using it for any relationship I’ve had.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: It sort of turns me off. But like maybe actually you just go through life and you have different relationships, and they come to embody what that word means to you, depending on what relationships you have.

[01:22:09]

So I think this one sort of like feels kind of close to that word guru. (pause) But I don’t like to use that word.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And I think there are aspects of this relationship that are (long pause) I think that the transference and counter-transferenceness of a student-guru relationship, like that set is kind of different than what -

[01:23:16]

It maybe includes what comes up here, but I think there’s other stuff (pause) that comes up here. But I don’t know. I think I have like I’m noticing like pretty similar patterns in like a lot of transferential (inaudible at 01:23:38).

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: Patterns in my transferential relationships.

THERAPIST: Yeah, that’s usually the way. (pause) Another thought that crossed my mind before as you were talking to whether there are ways in which one aspect of what you’re sorting out with me is stuff your mother didn’t sort out with her mother.

[01:24:20]

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: But, you know, instead it somehow passed along to me.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: I don’t I’m not saying that from the standpoint of that’s definitely what’s going on, or that’s how to assign who is responsible for what. But more like that seems like a very reasonable story about this. Or it feels like that, among other things.

CLIENT: Mmm. Like if we had to submit a story today. If the deadline were today -

[01:25:17]

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: You would submit that story.

THERAPIST: (chuckles) I think you’re teasing me.

CLIENT: Oh, yeah. (chuckles) [It came up] that there are things that my dad hasn’t dealt with that he’s passed onto me in much the same way.

THERAPIST: Yes.

CLIENT: [Your bringing up of my] but that stuff feels (pause) With my mom, it feels like anxiety and separation and sort of this whole being devotedness. And with my dad, it feels like grief and grief and grief.

[01:26:17]

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: And like a childlike wonder.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: Which like I included because maybe it’s something that leads to suffering when people don’t deal with it. But maybe actually it leads to a whole amount of joy, I don’t know.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (long pause) My impression about I think it probably varies a lot across traditions, but like the guru thing in contemporary (inaudible at 01:27:14) practice is that it’s pretty complicated.

[01:27:20]

And in some ways, it may be similar to the way [a romantic relationship is] complicated in that there is this sort of mix of very intense and, in some traditions I think, intentionally cultivated.

CLIENT: Mmm.

THERAPIST: Like sort of transferential stuff along with who the teacher is as a real-life flesh and blood limited human being.

CLIENT: Uh huh. You’re not limited, no. What are you saying?

THERAPIST: I wasn’t talking about me.

CLIENT: Oh, okay. (chuckles)

THERAPIST: I think one difference with us and this is not at all to say there can’t be problems with this. Of course there can. But like a lot of the point has to do with dealing with that. Whereas -

[01:28:20]

CLIENT: Right.

THERAPIST: That’s not necessarily the case with meditation teachers.

CLIENT: Like a lot of the point is to do with your practice and deal with how you might deal with what comes up between you and your teacher, but not deal with it between you and your teacher.

THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s to sort out like what’s your idealization of them -

CLIENT: Sure.

THERAPIST: versus who they actually are but to like yeah.

CLIENT: I was thinking about the role of sex.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: And how like sex might not ruin a meditation teacher’s ability to be a good teacher. Maybe like with that student. It would? But maybe not. I don’t know.

[01:29:22]

Whereas sex would probably ruin an analyst’s ability to be a good analyst. With anyone or with that patient. And with that patient.

THERAPIST: It’s very complicated.

CLIENT: Not complicated at all.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: Sex is so simple.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: [When you want it]. (long pause) Do you think that’s a difference in a meditation teacher-student relationship and a relationship like this? (long pause)

[01:30:42]

THERAPIST: Do I think that the difference with like having sex with patients makes a therapist unable to be a good therapist with any patient? Whereas with a meditation teacher, it’s possibly just limited to the student that they’re having sex with?

CLIENT: Do you think the role I don’t know if I like that theory.

THERAPIST: Uh huh.

CLIENT: But it seems to me like the role of sex is the scope of how much it ruins is more limited in a meditation teacher-student relationship. (long pause)

THERAPIST: I don’t know. I’m not sure that’s true. (pause)

[01:31:41]

CLIENT: Okay.

THERAPIST: I don’t I mean, I think like clearly with a psychoanalyst, it can ruin quite a lot. I’m not sure it’s necessarily less.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: I think it depends with the meditation teacher.

CLIENT: (pause) Yeah, maybe.

THERAPIST: I think we should stop for now. (long pause)

[01:32:56]

CLIENT: Why is it so clear what’s been left out when it’s time to leave? It’s not clear the rest of the time.

THERAPIST: Mmm.

CLIENT: That’s the trippy thing about (inaudible at 01:33:11).

THERAPIST: (pause) [It’s because your having to leave takes up half of the ambivalence that’s otherwise inside.]

CLIENT: Like so now that I have to leave, there’s all this space? (pause) Yeah, I think it takes up over half. Like 99 percent.

[01:34:01]

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: [Of goodbye].

THERAPIST: I see. (long pause) I can’t help but to joke at least there’s not aging and sickness every time.

CLIENT: There’s aging always, Jay.