Client "B", Session March 28. 2013: Client discusses guilt, dating, self-confidence, and having consciously changed in the last 10 years.
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:

BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:

THERAPIST: I’m not sure about this, but there’s a chance I will start having some hours here on Saturday mornings. And I wondered—but I’m not sure, probably around next couple of weeks or so, if you would want one of those.

CLIENT: Yes please.

THERAPIST: Ok, and instead of, or in addition of what we’ve got now?

CLIENT: I’ll have to think about that.

THERAPIST: Sure. Either would be ok, I’m just (Pause) then will keep you posted.

CLIENT: I ended up bailing out of work at about three yesterday because I wasn’t feeling well. I was feeling fine all morning and then during lunch I suddenly started feeling really nauseous and dizzy and vertigo.

THERAPIST: Oh gosh.

CLIENT: Yeah. All my classic migraine symptoms without the pain, so I don’t know what was going on with that, but I went home and slept. And now I feel terribly guilty and really anxious about some of my co-workers. Because even though it’s my boss’s policy that if you’re not feeling well, you should just go home. I wasn’t actually in any pain I don’t know. (Pause from [0:01:44.2] to [0:02:52.5])

THERAPIST: Yeah I understand that this seems like the part where I think, sort of, (pause) not wanting to think about how it made sense for you to go home and give that part over to me. And I’m not sure why. If it’s so I’ll reassure you, or that we can disagree about it, or because it’s not safe for you to feel.

CLIENT: I guess -

THERAPIST: I guess I’m going to go with the latter. Yeah.

CLIENT: I guess this constant fear that I’m lazy, malingering and that I was faking being sick in order to not deal with work. Which was quite challenging yesterday. And I really don’t trust my own judgment.

(Pause from [0:04:13.0] to [0:05:12.5])

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: Hmm?

THERAPIST: Oh I just said, “Hmm.”

(Pause from [0:05:16.6] to [0:06:18.8]) I wonder what’s on your mind? (inaudible) (Pause)

CLIENT: I know there’s a lot going on this week because it’s the week before Easter. There’s been other rehearsals or stuff at church every night this week and it’s sort of wearing me down.

Yesterday afternoon, I woke up and got managed together enough to go to choir rehearsals. Which is good because the music we’re practicing is hard and we haven’t given any of our pieces enough attention. It is—you know friends of mine who sang in community choirs, and have to learn three pieces over the course of a season; talk about, “Oh my Goodness, three pieces, this is so much.” And we learn at least a piece a week, if not more. Which is it’s just we don’t perform as well as community choirs who have a whole season to learn.

It’s just a little a little break neck sometimes, but made it to practice and practice pieces. And on one of them I’m actually is singing with the altos instead of with the sopranos. Because I can’t hit the high the high A and the hallelujah chorus.

But a bunch of my friends who sit in the altos section are like, “Of course you can hit a high A.” I’m like, “ No, I really can’t.” and they were like, “Yes you can, you shouldn’t feel bad about yourself.” I said, “No, I’ve practiced this piece with my voice instructor and she says I can’t hit it yet.” It really I was just it was really frustrating because I know they thought they we’re trying to be helpful. And they know I have issues with self-confidence and self-image, but -

THERAPIST: I see, in this case.

CLIENT: In this case it really is a fact, but I can’t reliability hit that note with any kind of clarity or relevance or I can shriek it, but it doesn’t sound good.

THERAPIST: I see.

CLIENT: Yeah, I’m going to trust my voice instructor on that, but.

(Pause from [0:08:36.8] to [0:08:59.3])

I accidently ended up over-scheduling myself for Saturday. I registered for this workshop that runs from one to five. Forgetting that Easter is the next day and I should reserve time for preparing Easter dinner. And I have a friend who will always hold her Passovers Sader late around Saturday, regardless when Passover actually starts. Just because it’s more convenient for her and her family. And that would be this Saturday and that’s gonna take out my whole evening. And then a member of my congregation died on Tuesday.

THERAPIST: Oh gosh.

CLIENT: I didn’t know her. She was very old and has been in a nursing home for the last 12 years, but she’d been part of the congregation for her entire life. 90 years.

THERAPIST: Wow, that’s cool.

CLIENT: Yeah, the choir is going to sing at her funeral. And our choir director says this is not mandatory, you might have other plans, but I kind of feel obligated to go. Between that and the workshop and the theatre, that’s my entire Saturday and I don’t know when I’m going to prepare for Easter and (inaudible 0:10:26.9) how much running from event to event I’m going to ended up doing, is the thing.

(Pause from [0:10:33.5] to [0:11:09.6])

THERAPIST: What’s your like, it must be exhausting. Not just, and it’s not a big deal, and a lot of other things too.

CLIENT: Right, right. I think it’s more I’m really worried that because my schedule is so overfull all week, this weekend. And going through the weekend that I’ll just end up flaking out on commitments. Not showing up or not doing things or doing a poor job. (Pause)

I also kind of hate the fact that I have a huge need for downtime between events and things and my mind, it’s a capital T, everything I need to do after work. And the more things there are, the harder it gets. I don’t know, maybe I’m just friends with a bunch of superwoman. But a lot of my friends manage to pack more things into their day than I do. I feel a little bit self-conscious about how much relaxation time I need to stay functional. And part of me worries that maybe I don’t actually need so much downtime, I’m just being lazy.

(Pause from [0:12:34.2] to [0:13:09.20])

THERAPIST: You said I guess part of which for me is the sense that (Pause) you probably question the “T” times through today, right? The most recent one is you know Why am I not doing as much as my friends are doing? Sort of like that. Is it because I’m lazy or because they are superwoman. What the hell is going on here?

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: And (Pause) you’re really not sure, how often you do you pretend to, I realize you are kind of weighing on the side of laziness. (Pause) Another part is and I think it’s important, which I think I’m addressing the role of like other people in this. Who it seems like sometimes you want to sort of reassure you, but maybe not really. Or like in the choir, who were clearly being nice and trying to reassure you, but just were also wrong.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: I think I’m trying to think what’s important to me like A part of this is you actually wanting to know what’s really going on.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: That I’m not talking about the emotional part of, are you lazy, read bad or are they superwoman reading it’s ok and maybe it’s even cool that their superwoman. Which would be sort of better or at the least a relief.

CLIENT: Right.

THERAPIST: And an important part of the thing is, you want to know. And it’s nice that your friends are being reassuring, but they’re not really saying. The one main thing is actually, you being in command of the facts and the reality of what they are. And maybe that has something to do with why reassurance isn’t necessarily helpful. Because in a way, even though it’s nice to be nicely treated, and certainly beats the shit out of being badly treated. (Laughing) It’s still not the same as you actually knowing how it is.

CLIENT: Right. I just have so much trouble trusting my own feelings, memories, and judgment.

THERAPIST: And other peoples.

CLIENT: Why do you say that?

THERAPIST: Because, I think you just don’t see the content of the experience of someone being reassuring as maybe their partly being informative, but mostly their just being nice.

CLIENT: Right.

(Pause from [0:16:51.1] to [0:18:00.5])

THERAPIST: Part of this is, every single one of these situations are today, often other times sort of involves the question of, I think in your mind, whether you’re fucking up in some major way. That reflects on you as a bad person. I wouldn’t say badly, considerably badly, but that question is always up for grabs. And you find it lots of places.

(Pause from [0:18:42.0] to [0:19:21.3])

THERAPIST: And (Pause) I bet it’s the intense anxiety you experienced in relation to that question. That makes it hard for you to actually put your thoughts together. About what’s going on?

CLIENT: I believe that.

THERAPIST: (Pause) I can’t quite word this, well, you’ll be condemned at the pits of hell if you get this wrong, but you feel like chocolate or vanilla. What do you feel like? (Laughs) It’s like, how do you just not get so freaked out about winding up in hell. That you know it’s very hard to get in touch with what you’ve gone through. (Pause)

CLIENT: The other thing that’s been occupying my thoughts a lot this week is, despite all of my claims that I was going to get off of OkCupid because it’s ridiculous. I found this cute guy on OkCupid again and I read this profile that looked really interesting to me. And the person seemed really smart and funny and awesome and then I got to the bottom of his profile and realized, “Wait a second, I know this guy.” He used to be roommates with my bad ex-boyfriend. And he has dated friends of mine and our social circles vaguely overlap, but I kind of, haven’t seen him in five years, so that’s -

THERAPIST: And his first name was?

CLIENT: Thomas.

THERAPIST: Thomas.

CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, “What the hell?” I’ll just say, “Hey, I’ve really enjoyed reading your profile.” That’s one thing he said in his profile was, he wanted to know what people thought of him. [0:22:07.0] I wrote back to him and told him what I thought of his profile.

THERAPIST: Sorry, is it getting too sunny over there? I’m just going to shut the shade.

CLIENT: No. That’s fine.

THERAPIST: Alright, keep me posted.

CLIENT: Ok. The sun is behind me, it’s all good. Yeah, I messaged him and he messaged back. And he said, “You know, we should set up a time to meet.” And I messaged him back with some dates and he hasn’t replied. Probably because we both have jobs and can’t check OkCupid at work and But anyway, now I’m all anxious about are we just meeting up as friends to reconnect after having not seen each other or is it a date. And I don’t know and I don’t know how to ask. And now I feel terribly awkward and anxious and kind of icky.

THERAPIST: That’s too bad.

(Pause from [0:23:01.2] to [0:23:28.4])

CLIENT: It’s really frustrating to me that the crease in the middle of these tissues is not actually in the middle.

THERAPIST: Oh, really?

CLIENT: Off center.

THERAPIST: No way.

CLIENT: It’s very annoying.

THERAPIST: (Laughs) is it at least parallel with the sides?

CLIENT: Yes.

THERAPIST: That’s just not quite in the middle.

(Pause from [0:23:57.7] to [0:24:48.9])

THERAPIST: What don’t you like about that? Or is it just annoying?

CLIENT: It’s just annoying. It makes it difficult to fold it exactly in half. It wants to go where the crease is.

THERAPIST: Right.

(Pause from [0:24:59.3] to [0:25:41.1])

THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s always a pain to say something like that to someone like me because I’ll want to make something of it.

CLIENT: (Laughs)

THERAPIST: And actually it reminds me of, I used to do I don’t do much child therapy these days. I used to child therapy and I’m interested in child therapy and child analysis and sometimes it’s, is stuff like that that you see that can be provocative or revealing. What was my other word? Not just like the clear theme in the story even if the kid is playing out with the mommy doll and the daddy doll or whatever.

CLIENT: Right.

THERAPIST: But anyway Yeah, I mean, we’re talking about you not knowing how to judge yourself and how you put yourself and your thoughts kind of coming apart around that question because you’re so anxious. And I imagine often growing up, the answer was clear and you were often bad, but, in a way, happily you’re not so sure about that anymore. At least often times.

But (Pause) fact that can make it difficult to locate this. And yeah, I guess this sort of anxiety around the crease not being in its proper place, it really gets to me. It should go where it’s supposed to go. It should have a very clear place. Yeah, you don’t have a very clear place either. Which has at least a part of why you are so anxious.

(Pause from [0:28:14.3] to [0:28:28.5])

CLIENT: When I was in elementary school, I learned origami in school and I wanted to try that origami. And I begged my parents to buy me perfectly square origami paper. And they were like, “That is such a waste of money, just cut a square out of your notebook paper.” And I was like, “It won’t be perfectly square because I can’t cut a perfect line.” and it was very, very upsetting to me. So my mom cut out some of sheets of square paper for me from my notebook and they weren’t perfectly square and it drove me crazy because the shapes I folded were not perfectly symmetrical because the paper wasn’t square. It was enormously upsetting to me.

THERAPIST: I see. (Pause) Yeah, that makes it come out a little differently. I knew that always bothered me because “Oh my god that’s not right, there’s a problem with it, it’s really bad.”

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: It’s really important to be really perfect and have everything just right.

CLIENT: Shocking nuts.

THERAPIST: Shocking.

(Pause from [0:29:51.2] to [0:30:07.7])

CLIENT: Anyway, Thomas invited me to sing with his shape note singing group. Which is tonight and I can’t go because tonight is Maundy Thursday and I have to be at church to sing church music for the Maundy Thursday.

THERAPIST: Was it Friday or something?

CLIENT: Yes.

THERAPIST: Oh.

CLIENT: Maundy Thursday is the commemoration of when Jesus celebrated his (inaudible) with his disciples. It’s a Christianized, westernized version of the Sader. Which if you kind of squint you can see the origins, but it’s quite Christianized, westernized in any regards, but anyway, I really like shape note music. I love, love, love it and it never occurred to me that there were groups in the area that do nothing but shape music.

THERAPIST: Ok. What is it?

CLIENT: (Laughs) It’s a type of folk singing that originated in England in the I want to say 17th century, but I might be wrong. It might be as recent as the 18th century. But anyway, a lot of the first wave of pilgrims and puritans who came into the US and brought that music with them and it’s a very egalitarian style of singing.

There’s no choir director, each member of the group takes turns leading different pieces. And then the name shaped note comes from the fact that instead of regular music notation, where all the notes are round. And they are filled in or not. And have a stem or not, depending on what their measureable value is. The notes are literally shapes, different pictures are drawn in different shapes. A triangle might represent an “A” and square might represent a “B” and so on. [0:31:59.0]

And so a lot of the music the different parts are all meant to try to drown out the other parts and their not very harmonic at all. They’re—it’s quite cacophonous at times, but it’s a lot of fun. And almost all shape music is Christian in theme, explicitly Christian because it was the music of puritans, but my choir director absolutely hates the sound of shape note music.

THERAPIST: Oh no.

CLIENT: We sing maybe one piece a year, if that. Like some years we don’t have any. We only sing that because some members become angry and demand it because they grew up with it.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: But it never occurred to me that there are groups in the area that meet every week to do nothing but shape note music. And I think this is fantastic. But I’m also really worried about showing up because Thomas invited me. And what if things end up really awkward when we meet each other. Is this a date, is this not a date, meeting friend. I don’t know. I feel overwhelmed by anxieties of all of the things that could possibly go wrong.

(Pause from [0:33:06.7] to [0:33:45.8])

CLIENT: And then there’s also part of it, where, in one of his responses to me, Thomas said that he would literally did not recognize who I was from my OkCupid profile. He was like, “You have changed so much since we’ve last spent any time at all hanging out together.” And I mean, in some regards I knew this. And on some regards I deliberately set out to change who I am and becoming a different person than I was ten years ago. I don’t really like the me of ten years ago very much. Having changed for the better well, I assume that I’ve changed for the better. Suppose I can’t really know that, but I like to think I have.

THERAPIST: But according to you, you have.

CLIENT: Sure. Okay I can take that one. Yeah.

THERAPIST: Ok.

CLIENT: I like myself a lot better now. Which is just not the way I actually like myself.

THERAPIST: I understand. It’s relevant.

CLIENT: That’s all good, but it’s still felt a little I don’t know. It made me very uncomfortable to hear someone else say it. I felt a little bit embarrassed someone would point it out that you know, like someone had pointed out that I had stepped in a pile of dog shit and it was stuck on my shoe.

THERAPIST: You know why?

CLIENT: No I don’t.

(Pause from [0:35:20.1] to [0:35:33.7])

THERAPIST: Do you think it’s because (Pause) maybe he remembered what you like? I’m sorry, what you were like. Which to you, feels shitty. In other words, you felt you we’re pretty shitty then.

CLIENT: Well, maybe. And I don’t have that many friends who knew me ten years ago. And then sometimes I like to pretend the old me of ten years ago didn’t exist.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: I suppose it’s not the healthiest. I should be able to integrate my views of myself and accept who I was. All of that good stuff.

THERAPIST: Right, but I (Pause) It’s hard. I think you’ll still feel bad about who you were then.

(Pause from [0:36:47.8] to [0:37:00.7])

THERAPIST: I don’t What it sort of reminds me of is more serious, pertains to be sad, but this sort of thing where you haven’t seen somebody since, like that awkward middle school phase where—there are probably, unfortunately still a few pictures around where they haven’t managed to find and burn or something.

CLIENT: (Laughs)

THERAPIST: Somebody saw one of those or that’s the way they remember you and you say something about it and its years later and you’re like, “Oh, shit.”

CLIENT: I don’t remember feeling awkward in middle school and I didn’t have many friends and that was frustrating. I remember feeling lonely a lot, but I never remember feeling awkward or insecure. I kind of had ridiculous levels of self-confidence for your typical middle-schooler. Possibly verging into arrogance that might be why I had no friends. (Laughs) It didn’t really start feeling awkward until high school. Middle school was actually not that terrible for me. [0:38:36.4]

THERAPIST: Well good.

CLIENT: Yeah. And I get the point you were trying to make.

THERAPIST: Right, right. (Pause) But you would not have that reaction to (inaudible).

CLIENT: High school was a different story. Wish I could scrap the last two years of high school, first years of college from my memory. Those were some unpleasant times that are embarrassing to think about.

(Pause from [0:39:19.1] to [0:40:18.7])

THERAPIST: And some of the worries also kind of come up in here about like, (Pause) (inaudible 0:40:33.5) how you have suffered because you (inaudible) someone who has, in addition to me are you doing (inaudible 0:40:48.7). It’s not what you are talking about with Liam, or anything like that.

CLIENT: Right. I’m doing therapy late. It’s very important to me that I be doing it right.

THERAPIST: Are the criteria clear?

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: Ok.

CLIENT: I think it’s deliberately so on your part.

THERAPIST: Absolutely. I wanted to (inaudible)

CLIENT: (Laughing)

THERAPIST: I’m sorry, what I meant was not are my criteria clear, but do you have clear standards of judgment for what it means.

CLIENT: No, I don’t.

THERAPIST: Ok.

CLIENT: Which is probably for the best because when I just (inaudible 0:41:27.7) and I don’t think it actually helps me anyway.

(Pause from [0:41:30.5] to [0:41:51.2])

CLIENT: (inaudible) happened at choir rehearsal yesterday. One of my I wouldn’t call her a friend because we really don’t see or talk to each other outside of choir. We have a friendly relationship.

Someone for her age She’s about 20 years older than me and she’s very sweet and everyone loves her, but we’re at different life stages. Her kids are leaving for college and we don’t talk all that much.

But anyway, she said that I have a really beautiful voice and that she could tell when I started taking lessons with my voice teacher. My voice teacher Victoria, actually does lessons with a lot of the mentors in my choir. I know her because there have been a couple of times when our choir director has taken his sabbatical and Victoria steps in and does the interim director. Only for the sabbatical. But yeah, a lot of members of choir take private lessons with her.

Anyway, I could tell when you started taking lessons with Victoria because it was dramatic difference in technique within a couple of weeks. And I had that same kind of feeling of someone just pointed out I have toilet paper stuck to my shoe or someone just pointed out that my skirt is tucked into my panty hose or something like that. It’s really embarrassing to have that pointed out. Even though I’m sure that she meant it 100 percent positively. It was not back handed or passive aggressive in any way.

THERAPIST: Right. It was just what it does for you. (inaudible 0:43:27.4)

CLIENT: Of course, sorry.

THERAPIST: Oh that’s ok. See you Monday.

CLIENT: Yup.