Client "R", Session March 07, 2014: Client discusses relationships and therapist-related dreams.
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:

BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:

THERAPIST: Would you incline that shade just halfway or something? Thanks. (long pause)

[00:01:01]

CLIENT: Can I show you some pictures?

THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) From the weekend?

CLIENT: (pause) There’s three.

THERAPIST: Is that you and Michael?

CLIENT: That’s me and Michael.

THERAPIST: And Doug.

CLIENT: Yeah. He has naked baby time before his bath every day.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: And to my delight, hopped into my lap.

THERAPIST: Uh huh.

CLIENT: There’s a lot of snuggling.

THERAPIST: Uh huh.

CLIENT: There are two more. (pause)

[00:02:06]

THERAPIST: Is that Jeremy and his nephews?

CLIENT: That’s Jeremy and Michael and Jack.

THERAPIST: That’s a good picture.

CLIENT: Yeah. He was on the couch snuggling with Jack like that for a long time, and Michael hopped into his lap.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. How old is Michael now?

CLIENT: Two and a half. He’s something else.

THERAPIST: Yeah?

CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) That was my first meeting with Jack.

THERAPIST: Uh huh. You look very happy.

[00:02:58]

CLIENT: (chuckles) I was so happy. I was surprised to see that my face reflected how happy I was.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. [Those are very good pictures].

CLIENT: Thanks. Michael is like a the peak of his rote memorization learning. So he has like dozens of books memorized. He’s pretty strange. He’s definitely got some Folk-Wasserman [ph] family male strangeness issues which Jeremy has and all of his male cousins have.

[00:04:09]

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: It’s this sort of like (pause) You know, like high-functioning (pause) I don’t know too much about the autism spectrum, but I imagine it’s sort of a combination of high-functioning spectrumy artistness. All four males in that lineage have pretty intense artistic drives and also like have kind of a hard time fitting in with the way our world is structured, like school.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

[00:05:09]

CLIENT: And also sort of in a social way, like they’re all kind of a little odd. So Michael has some of that. He’s like in his head a lot, and he has this like low-grade sort of cooing narration he just like says all day. He’s very independent. He can play by himself for a long time, but he’s got this like way of experiencing what’s happening through the lens of a book, either one that he’s read or one that he’s writing in his words. So it’s like “We’re going to bury momma pig in all the rice. We’re going to bury her so deep.”

[00:06:05]

Like “‘I’m scared’ she said. Don’t be scared, momma pig. Red is here. Red is coming and we’re going to get you out. We’re getting you out.”

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: Like this is one loop that he did for like 15 minutes with me.

THERAPIST: Uh huh.

CLIENT: You know, it’s kind of like he was writing a book.

THERAPIST: A play-by-play story time?

CLIENT: Yeah. And the loop thing is hilarious and also pretty strange. He’s less loop-oriented now. When he was a little younger, he would just do the exact same thing over and over for like 15 minutes. On this visit, there was like lots of variation in every time he repeated it.

[00:07:02]

He’s very, very affectionate. (pause) There was like lots of climbing on us and sort of like not being upright a lot. That’s one really nice thing about toddlers, I think. There’s not really a preference, at least it seems like for him, to be like standing or sitting. It’s like just as good to be sideways or upside down or on the floor in lots of different ways. (pause)

[00:07:55]

He doesn’t connect with people. I don’t know that anyone his age does. I think I did. I think that was my main thing. He like loves, loves people. He was very, very, very happy when we arrived, and he was very happy to sort of come sit in our laps and pull us different places and jump all over us. But he didn’t have like “Now you do this” or “Now we’ll do this together.” It was sort of like wrapped into the narration. He doesn’t like talk directly too much. It’s always like -

THERAPIST: I see. It’s more in the third person.

CLIENT: Yeah. And of course there’s the really funny -

THERAPIST: “Jeremy and (inaudible at 00:08:59) came to the house, yay.”

[00:09:01]

CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And he doesn’t use “I” still, so he still uses the second person for himself. “We were so happy when [she gave you the yellow pepper].” (long pause)

[00:10:07]

He read 60 pages from memorization to me. I’d flip the page at the right word. Is that weird? (pause) It was incredible. (pause)

THERAPIST: Yeah, I don’t know. I think it’s a little on one end of the distribution. Like in this culture I’ve heard of, I guess it’s a Russian subculture, this little kid memorized a lot, a lot of stuff.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: [So I don’t know.] (pause)

[00:11:12]

CLIENT: I’m excited to know him more. (pause) Yeah, he’s definitely got some interesting things. He’ll sometimes like go from being independently playing like he interacts a lot with his friends, like his animal figures and dolls and dollhouse. Melissa and Thomas are great about sort of being gender agnostic, especially when they found out they’re having two boys.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

[00:12:04]

CLIENT: Like with the dollhouse. It doesn’t seem like a female thing to me, but I guess it has that association, a dollhouse. (pause)

THERAPIST: Yeah, they’re also not real gendered on their own at that age.

CLIENT: No, he’s not at all. The things he does in the dollhouse are like momma pig puts baby pig down for a nap.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: It’s like the stuff he does in his life.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. Yeah, like boys and girls come in a little more like around three.

CLIENT: Mmm.

THERAPIST: Or three and a half. I mean, that doesn’t mean he’ll be particularly (inaudible at 00:13:00) gendered that way, but that’s like -

[00:13:03]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. (pause) There’s a mode he gets into which like triggers Tammy. It sort of upsets or disturbs her. His self-soothing thing is he puts three fingers in his mouth and holds his ear with the other hand. So like pretty much he does that all day unless he’s like using his hands to play with his friends or eat.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: So it’s kind of like thumb-sucking, I guess. He used to hold Tammy’s ear and he held my ear.

[00:14:04]

But like now he doesn’t prefer somebody else’s ear anymore. His ear is just fine. I think that’s something well, I don’t know how they feel about that. But Tammy doesn’t like when he will like put his fingers in his mouth and hold his ear and walk around in circles, and he’s sort of unreachable at that time. He’s very he seems agitated to me. And it’s sort of like at a transition time, or when he’s upset, or when he doesn’t know what he’s trying to say. He’s sort of like going through something. He’ll literally just like walk around in circles, and the narration stops, and he sort of gets this glazed look in his eyes.

[00:15:01]

So Tammy has it was interesting for me to see her approach to this. She just started doing something, like (inaudible at 00:15:13) to do anything. She has started asking him for a hug or asking him if he would like to come snuggle with momma. It seems to be really nice for him. They’re like -

THERAPIST: [That’s a good move].

CLIENT: Yeah. Like 10 times they did it over the course of the three days. Like most of the times he sort of it was enough of a shift, a loving, warm shift to launch him into his next thing. It was really it made a big impression on me. It’s not the sort of thing I think I had.

There was very little open acknowledgement or physical affection in my house.

[00:16:10]

THERAPIST: It’s not because it’s not down far enough. It’s because it’s coming through the holes. Uh huh.

CLIENT: You need to wear sunglasses in here.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: I won’t judge you.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles)

THERAPIST: What judgment won’t you have? (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles) Can you imagine? “Hi, I’m the doctor. Nice to meet you. I wear sunglasses inside.”

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles) I don’t have the judgment that you’re weird.

THERAPIST: (chuckles)

CLIENT: (chuckles)

THERAPIST: Just so we’re clear. (chuckles) (pause)

[00:17:17]

CLIENT: Yes, there is no acknowledgement that like snuggling with momma is a (pause) Like it is the happiest thing in the world. I think there is lots of like, I just got grabbed into momma’s lap or I would crawl into momma’s lap, and there wasn’t really a way to ask for it with words. (pause) And in their house it’s (pause) It’s sort of like this (pause)

[00:18:14]

It’s like this way of life. (pause) Not just with Tammy but with Thomas too and now with Jack and with us and with friends. (pause) And Jeremy has Jeremy sort of got me into that part of myself because he has the same approach, I think, that Tammy does and I think his family does. Like snuggling with each other is (pause) what you can do when you love somebody and it feels really good.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

[00:19:08]

CLIENT: And like you can just like do that all day, or you can ask for it, or you can ask for it later. So that’s one of the ways in which he’s like pretty sometimes when he seems clueless about, I don’t know, connecting (pause) I remember that that’s one of the ways in which he’s really clued in. And it’s helped me a lot. (long pause)

[00:20:47]

I cried during this Wiggle Worms class that Michael goes to on Mondays. (chuckles) It was so surprising. Wiggle Worms is this class on Mondays. It’s like 45 minutes and it’s for two year olds and it’s taught by Mr. Scott. Mr. Scott is this like genius with children. He’s a musical theater actor. He’s probably around my age, and he has a guitar and he has some props, like a big parachute which the grown-ups can hold onto and do fun things with the children.

[00:21:42]

Like a little treasure box. Big drums and little drums. Shakers and other musical things. He sort of leads this like musical sing-a-long that’s like very loose. Like half the time the kids were like wandering around in their own world. Like most of the time. But he would sort of bring them in regularly for like some group thing or some individual thing and it’s all in song. And he was really, really good with them. And somehow that brought me to tears a couple of times, the class. I think the music or like something. There are a couple of times where it’s like “Hug your grown-up!” and that was really touching.

[00:22:39]

There’s not just parents, there’s like lots of grandparents. There were maybe like nine kids in the class. And there is this one boy Lenny who like didn’t want to take off his boots, and his dad kind of like hung onto that for a second, and I think Lenny felt really bad that his dad was trying to make him take off his boots. And his dad was like “That’s okay, you can wear all your clothes.” He wore like his jacket, his hat and his boots. He sat in his dad’s lap for nearly the entire class where like most of the time, the children are like sort of asked to not sit in their parents’ laps. And most of them didn’t seem to want to. There were a couple of kids who like wanted to check in pretty often.

[00:23:35]

But Lenny was like in the lap the whole time, except like when he came out and at some point he just like something he watched, maybe it was bubbles. He’s got this like huge grin on his face and it was like boom, new Lenny. He was like smiling and started chasing another kid and laughing a lot. And his dad was like so psyched. He was the only dad out of the nine. There was one grandfather. (pause) I was surprised that I was brought to tears. I think I was pretty ripe from my dream still. (long pause)

[00:25:42]

THERAPIST: Well, maybe we’re learning more about bus driving, actually. I’m thinking of that and thinking of the first dream that you mentioned. And I’m thinking about your parents. I mean, you mentioned your mom not getting it about snuggling so much.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: And me either not getting it or not wanting it.

CLIENT: [Or wanting it] and not doing it.

THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) Actually, I think that’s the more logical version. I think like maybe I’m wrong, but the more [felt] version seems to me that I either don’t get it, like the person in the dream.

[00:26:51]

You know, I’m smart in one way but really limited in another way. Or I’m misanthropic. Like I don’t want it. (pause) I agree that another version would be I get it and I want it, but I don’t do it. But I imagine that’s a little more logical, like mature -

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: interpretation and -

CLIENT: Yeah, like that one comes from here.

[00:27:43]

THERAPIST: Yeah. And what I’m thinking of, your being emotional at the moments when it wasn’t like that. Like a moment when it wasn’t like that when it was sort of acknowledged and everybody was into “Go hug your grown-up!”

CLIENT: Uh huh. (pause) What it was like how was it not like what?

THERAPIST: That seems like so I guess I could say the version you’re worried about, or even that you often feel is in place, is one in which people don’t get that and don’t get how much that matters.

[00:28:41]

CLIENT: Like hugging your grown-up.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Uh huh.

THERAPIST: And “Ah, they get it.” You know, like it’s moving.

CLIENT: It’s very moving.

THERAPIST: And it’s not something you take for granted.

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: And maybe I have a really tortuous metaphor, but like I think that at least with me, when you’re driving the bus, that’s where we’re headed. That’s what you’re trying to get me to do or get me to understand or get me to I guess, clue into is probably the best way that I can put it.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. (pause) It’s a nice place to be headed in one way.

THERAPIST: Sure.

[00:29:42]

CLIENT: In another way, it’s excruciatingly painful.

THERAPIST: (pause) I guess part of my point is that in that, it feels to you like that’s something I don’t get, that’s somewhere I don’t know that we should be going, you better be driving the bus.

CLIENT: I see. (pause) Yeah, like my parents.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.

CLIENT: I don’t feel any lack of like physical affection with my mom, at least. There is plenty of snuggling. There’s never really like an acknowledgment of how important it is. (pause)

[00:30:53]

And there’s this weird father-daughter distance thing in Italian culture, so it’s harder. I’m sure when I was younger, it wasn’t there and I don’t remember. But it’s harder to sort of get into my dad’s nook. We also don’t say “I love you” to each other, my dad and I. Jeremy has sort of latched onto this and says it’s funny. I don’t know why he thinks it’s funny. I think it’s very charged.

THERAPIST: Hmm. When you say you think it’s very charged, do you mean between you and your dad and do you mean like with Jeremy?

[00:31:49]

CLIENT: No. Like it’s kind of Jeremy sort of so like I said “I love you” to him when I was leaving one trip, like maybe Christmas time or something this past year. And he said “I love you” and I remarked in the car, I had my cousin with me, I was like I talked about it. It was pretty significant. It was pretty special. But it also didn’t seem that special. Like it didn’t seem that important between me and my dad. I think it’s charged to have there be an emphasis on the words for that relationship, because I don’t need to force my dad to say words that he doesn’t say. But then like it’s kind of well, why doesn’t he say them?

THERAPIST: Hmm.

[00:32:53]

CLIENT: So anyway yeah, the words thing hasn’t been so strong. But the actions from both my parents have been so strong that (pause) Yeah. So strong. (pause) Why do you think I dreamed that you came and tried to convince me to let it go?

THERAPIST: (pause) This was the third one that was -

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: in my study?

CLIENT: No, the fourth one was in your study with your daughter.

THERAPIST: Oh, that’s right.

[00:33:52]

CLIENT: The third one was like in -

THERAPIST: In San Diego.

CLIENT: In San Diego when you had come and were trying to sort of reason with me to just like let things be as they are. I was pleading with you and crying. You kept saying that I would be very glad later on. And there was the weird thing about like I don’t know what your domesticness is.

THERAPIST: Right.

CLIENT: Like maybe it’s going to be (inaudible at 00:34:26).

THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:34:27).

CLIENT: And I don’t know what that was about either. And you sort of explained that you were taking it slow with me as if to yeah. (pause)

[00:34:52]

THERAPIST: [Maybe I am.]

CLIENT: It was very, very powerful.

THERAPIST: I guess the most obvious thing about it to me is like you’re trying to get your head around this sort of struggle between you and me around that and sort of laying out a version of it (inaudible at 00:35:29). (pause)

[00:35:49]

CLIENT: I was picking up your daughter and kissing her. (pause) That was really powerful too. (long pause) Maybe that’s where I want the bus to go.

THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (pause) I also had a thought. It’s tricky. Like I also had a thought that was a memory.

[00:36:55]

CLIENT: Mmm.

THERAPIST: Of yours. That you feel very much like you feel very much outside of.

CLIENT: I am the daughter? Uh huh.

THERAPIST: But the tricky thing it seems to me about that is it sort of dodges that part of the dream that’s so hurtful.

CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)

[00:37:45]

THERAPIST: Oh. (long pause) I haven’t really thought this through but maybe there’s a progression through the dreams from a version in which I’m not trying to reduce the dreams to being about you and me because it’s about a lot of things, but in terms of that thread through them. In the first one, I don’t get it and need coaching.

[00:38:51]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: I sort of understand other things really well, but not the things that really matter. (pause) And in a way, that’s a version in which like (pause) I’m not trying to say [there aren’t things true about that], but I think we would probably agree that there’s also a fair amount of that version of things that is kind of on you in a way. Because it puts it on the way it puts it on me is like really the problem here or the difficulty is that I just don’t get it. Whereas the last version is really quite different, the last dream.

[00:39:49]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: You know, there it’s about roles.

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: And actually I do get it in that one.

CLIENT: Yeah, you totally got it.

THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:40:11)

CLIENT: Just not with me.

THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) And before that (pause) [Well, I don’t get that one] but it seems like it’s sort of more in the middle. Like I do I’m trying to explain an idea I have about how this will help you.

[00:40:53]

CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.

THERAPIST: Even though it’s clearly very hurtful.

CLIENT: (pause) I think that one is the most powerful of the four, like maybe because it’s -

THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:41:14)

CLIENT: The closest -

THERAPIST: Uh huh.

CLIENT: to what it’s like, except that it’s not really because you would never try to convince me to stay.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: In that way. I think. (pause) Because your reaction is less affirmative than I expected.

[00:42:01]

THERAPIST: [Does that impose the question] of whether I would?

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: (pause) I guess I’m not sure what to say except that it’s true I am not intending particularly to react to your fantasy that I would not do that.

CLIENT: That’s infuriatingly vague. (chuckles)

THERAPIST: That was very specific.

CLIENT: What? (chuckles)

THERAPIST: (pause) I feel like you’re pushing me to come down on one side of that or the other.

CLIENT: I’m just telling you that your reaction is surprising to me.

[00:42:57]

THERAPIST: (chuckles) Okay. Okay.

CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. Maybe in the dream [it’s quite off] in terms of like what you would say.

THERAPIST: Hmm.

CLIENT: But somehow it has launched [me into some new space about it].

THERAPIST: We should stop now.

CLIENT: Can you write me a receipt for the little bit of out-of-pocket money that I’ve paid you? (inaudible at 00:43:55) Do you want me to tell you the amount?

[00:44:05]

THERAPIST: Sure. Would you send me an e-mail about it?

CLIENT: Yeah, I’ll send an e-mail.

THERAPIST: Okay.

CLIENT: Then you can e-mail it to me?

THERAPIST: Sure.

CLIENT: Okay. [That will make them very happy.]

END TRANSCRIPT