Client "L", Session January 09, 2014: Client discusses a difficult time she had at the doctors and how family relations were strained over the holidays.
TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:

BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:

CLIENT: He got this wonderful idea in October that all his patients that were on narcotics were all to get their prescriptions refilled on the 28th of the month. And instead of seeing them every month he was going to see me in December. So when I first went up to get my prescriptions in October I called a week ahead of time that they were due, gave them the message that I would be needing my narcotics prescriptions, okay? So the following week I called on a Monday because he’s only there on Tuesdays you know. And I said I need to know if he’s going to fill out the scripts and at one time I says because I have to book the ride. And I says I can’t call up the day that I’m going to them because they could say we’ll pick you up at 1 o’clock for your appointment but we won’t be able to come back to pick you up until 5, you know? So nobody ever called me back. They were going to pass it along to the nurse and she was supposed to let me know what time to come in. It didn’t happen. It didn’t happen. So I got a phone call at 2 o’clock Tuesday afternoon to say my prescriptions were done. Well, I don’t have a way to get up there.

Well, I called up one of my friends that lives in the building. Greta. We went to school together. So I says, ‘Greta, could you do me a favor? Just run me up to the clinic and I’ll be right out.’

THERAPIST: And this is what day now?

CLIENT: This is the day before – two days before Thanksgiving. Okay? So I went up, we asked about my scripts, and you know I’m downstairs. So that was October. That was for November. Now come December I saw him like the first of the month and I said to him, this 28 day shit just ain’t working out for me. So he says, well I’ll move you up to 26 days.

THERAPIST: So what’s the difference?

CLIENT: To pick up the prescriptions. Don’t ask me why he’s moving me up to the 26th because, forget it. So December comes. I called a week ahead of time as usual to let them know. So nobody called me back. Well, it’s the day before Christmas now. I just says to Greta – would you drive me up? I figured they’re going to be there because it’s 28 days, right?

THERAPIST: Oh, they do it every 28 days, not the 28th.

CLIENT: Right. So I get up there. There’s a skeleton crew and I said, do you have prescriptions for me? She says, no – no prescriptions. Dr. Winchester was on vacation that week. I says, well how am I supposed to get my meds? I says, I’m all out of them. You know, what am I going to do for the pain, my pain medication?

THERAPIST: Right.

CLIENT: Well, I don’t know. I says well don’t you think maybe you could call them and see what’s going on? So she called and explained it to him and he says he would talk to the doctor that was on call that day up at the clinic and have him write them out.

THERAPIST: But they did get in contact with Winchester.

CLIENT: Yeah. So, but I had to wait for him to be done seeing patients. So it’s been an hour now. Greta comes up to see how I am. She has to leave.

THERAPIST: Yeah. Right.

CLIENT: So some nurse came out and Greta says, ‘I thought something happened because she has never been there – the last time we came she was in and out in five.’ Oh, well the doctor’s doing this. I mean the nurse was trying – I says, ‘well is was some shitty way of having communication.’ Why didn’t they call me a week ahead of time if they knew he wasn’t going to be in? [0:04:48]

THERAPIST: Or tell you that he wasn’t in.

CLIENT: I mean isn’t it common sense?

THERAPIST: Yeah, doesn’t he have somebody on call who will write them out if he’s not there?

CLIENT: They don’t want to write them out. That’s why he’s changed everything to 28 days for all his patients.

THERAPIST: But he didn’t do anything about when he’s on vacation.

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah. Right.

CLIENT: Okay? So I’m in the office crying to this nurse. I says, you know, I have no way home now. I don’t have a fucking penny in my pocket. She says, ‘I’ll give you two taxi vouchers – one to take you to the drugstore to get your prescriptions and then another one for you to call them and have them come pick you up when your prescriptions area ready and to take you home.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: I’m going – no, I haven’t even had this medicine and you know. Blah, blah, blah, blah. Well the doctor finally did write them out for me. But I mean I was there from 12 o’clock until almost 2:30. No – that wasn’t right at all. You know? I was embarrassed. I mean it was, you would have thought I was a criminal, you know, right? The doctor knows it but you’ve got to wait. Yeah, well. I have it. So I wrote them – the patient advocate. I wrote her a three page letter and you know, I says, my whole holiday was ruined over that, I says, because I was so damned depressed and upset and embarrassed over it. So I says, forget it, you know? I says, I don’t know whether I have to change doctors or what. If he just doesn’t give a shit about his patients anymore. So my next visit wasn’t until March. He moved it to three months now. So I said, no, no – I said to the girl at the desk. Make me an appointment for him with me for January I says because I’m coming in. Once a month. So I came out to where I would have to go up there once a month to get my vitamin B12 shot. So that would be an $8 ride with the ride. And then I have to go up there another time to pick up my prescriptions.

THERAPIST: They can’t do it on the – like every month?

CLIENT: Oh no. No, no, right? Because my vitamin B12 is due the first of the month and I wouldn’t get my prescriptions until almost the end of the month. I said, uh huh [no], fuck this shit. So I said to the girl, ‘make me an appointment.’ And I wrote in the letter, from now on when I come in and see him, I don’t give a shit if it’s to say hello, good-bye – I’m getting my prescriptions that day and I’ll get my B12 shot that day. That’s all there is to it. So, hopefully they got the letter today.

THERAPIST: Yeah. Yes. It’s too infrequent to see your doctor.

CLIENT: Yeah, with all the problems I have – yeah, right, you know? I’ve got to go see the heart doctor for my – what do you call it? Pacemaker. Today I have you. Next week I have a mammogram and then I have an [appointment with], my psychiatrist. And then I have my foot doctor on Thursday. So I have Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday booked next week. But then the week after I think I have three or four more appointments. You know. Give me a break.

THERAPIST: Yeah. (Unclear) doctors. [0:09:32]

CLIENT: I’m just not happy.

THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.

CLIENT: You know?

THERAPIST: Yeah. Right! Yeah, the other thing I was thinking about last time is – I wanted to ask you about today is how it’s been meaningless frequently here. How have you found it to be?

CLIENT: Alright. You mean going every two weeks or sometimes every three weeks? Fine. I couldn’t afford to come in every week.

THERAPIST: Has it been hard for you? I mean even though you – understanding that based upon what’s going on for you – you have to come less frequently. How’s it been for you? How’s it been on you?

CLIENT: Alright. You know? I mean, I don’t know. You know. I’ve had issues but then again we all have issues. But yeah. So yeah, next week it’s the mammogram, the shrink, the foot doctor. The following week it’s Dr. Elliott, and then you and then the surgeon. So.

THERAPIST: And what do you – you don’t know when the surgeon is going to schedule you out but –

CLIENT: No. No idea.

THERAPIST: Okay. Well, yeah, I’m guessing that will be another break for us. Yeah, it’s been – I was thinking you know, I guess why it came to mind was the last time we met, right at the end there we got into [Mark] (ph) and I was thinking, boy, Louise has a lot on her mind, a lot weighing on her and when we see each other less, it must be hard. I was thinking it must be hard holding onto all that stuff for you.

CLIENT: I mean with Mark, yeah, I miss him, but you know – you know, he played me for a fool. You know? I know what he was doing all along. But, hey, what can I say.

THERAPIST: Well, you’re nobody’s fool. You know him very well. I think he tried to stick in there as much as he could to see if you would –

CLIENT: To (unclear).

THERAPIST: You were under no illusions.

CLIENT: Oh. Did I tell you I wrote him a letter to send to his house?

THERAPIST: What did you – I don’t know that you did tell me that. I know that you were thinking about talking to his wife but –

CLIENT: You know, I haven’t seen her around.

THERAPIST: But I know, you were – maybe you had – did you send him a card?

CLIENT: I sent him a Christmas card but I had sent him a letter before that.

THERAPIST: What did you put in the letter?

CLIENT: Oh, just that he was an asshole and da, da, da – nothing but a fucking liar and a drunk and everything else. The Christmas card was even better because I told him, you know, make sure you look under the Christmas tree because Santa might have left you the set of balls that you’re missing.

THERAPIST: Yeah, I remember that. That’s what you told me about, yeah.

CLIENT: So I think he got them first before wifey knew.

THERAPIST: Well, they were addressed to him.

CLIENT: Yeah. But she would open it up, you know.

THERAPIST: You think she might.

CLIENT: Yeah. That’s if she’d been around. She couldn’t have been around though because if my husband was going to get a letter and it’s addressed to him in a girl’s handwriting, you know, and who’d tear it into a 101 pieces – I’d be in the barrel picking them up and –

THERAPIST: Wondering what’s in that letter.

CLIENT: And putting them together, believe me. You left me a jigsaw puzzle. Thanks honey.

THERAPIST: But I want to know. I’ll put it together.

CLIENT: Oh yeah, alright? So as I said, I haven’t seen her because rarely (unclear) out of the house. I’m not out there walking around in order to see her. So. I don’t know.

THERAPIST: Yeah. Has he been weighing on your mind?

CLIENT: I would say, yes. I’ll think about him and then I’ll say, ‘okay, that’s it, get him out of my mind.’ You know? I did join two dating sites on the Internet.

THERAPIST: You did.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Which ones did you do?

CLIENT: Black Senior Men.

THERAPIST: Black Senior Men. There’s a site just called “Black Senior Men”?

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: That’s so specific.

CLIENT: And then there’s another one called “Sixties”. Yeah, it’s for senior people.

THERAPIST: Sure.

CLIENT: So. Of course I get the letters from the 83 year old guys. I’m not so sure I should go out with them. They’ve got one foot in the grave. Don’t forget to change your will honey. (Laughs)

THERAPIST: The will, huh?

CLIENT: So, I mean, I’ve gotten some letters back from them and stuff but I’m just not, I don’t know. I’m not that interested. Like yesterday I went on my computer and there was like 60 things – 33 from the black men site and another 30 from the other. I just erased them all. I don’t even know why I bothered to join because I just erase them all anyway.

THERAPIST: Not interested. Is it the age or just feel like you’re not interested in dating?

CLIENT: Not interested in dating.

THERAPIST: Right.

CLIENT: And I write down that you know, I want them within a certain limit of where I live.

THERAPIST: Oh, okay.

CLIENT: So I say, (unclear), why do you even fucking bother? [0:16:23]

THERAPIST: Duh.

CLIENT: So yeah. I just get on there and – or if the black men (unclear) they don’t look like that even – forget it.

THERAPIST: You end up looking for guys like Mark.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Yeah, you know you really opened up to him in a very, very intimate – close to him.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: In a way, Louise, in all the ways that we’ve been working together, he has been the one guy that kind of reignited something in you.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Big time. And it’s not easy to – it’s just –

CLIENT: It’s not easy to get over.

THERAPIST: To get over. Yeah. Yeah. He’s still right with you

CLIENT: Yeah. He’s still in my thoughts.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: I don’t know what I would ever do if I saw him in person. But then again he would ignore me anyways. So it wouldn’t make a difference? You know? [0:17:38]

THERAPIST: Yeah. You chose one tough character to get close to. And you got as close as I think anybody’s going to get, Louise.

CLIENT: Yeah. You know. What a fool.

THERAPIST: What a fool? I think you kind of knew his game.

CLIENT: Oh yeah.

THERAPIST: You knew his game.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: There was something about him for you.

CLIENT: Yeah, there was. There was.

THERAPIST: There is.

CLIENT: I haven’t heard a word from him since September 1st.

THERAPIST: Oh God. Wow.

CLIENT: Long time.

THERAPIST: Do you ever hear anything about what’s going on with him?

CLIENT: No. No. Not at all. And I don’t think I want to know. You know? So. Because he’s probably got some new sucker of a broad that he’s leeching money off of or whatever. You know? But then again he has to have a broad that lives close by. Because Deborah has the car.

THERAPIST: So he can walk to them.

CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yes. You know.

THERAPIST: But, who knows. Well, you brought up a heck of a lot from the looks of that.

CLIENT: Just don’t fall.

THERAPIST: Yeah, wow.

CLIENT: I can really do without him in my life. At least I’ve been able to save money, you know? And my darling granddaughter –

THERAPIST: She was up, right?

CLIENT: Yeah. She was up for Thanksgiving, not for Christmas.

THERAPIST: Oh, I thought she was coming up for –

CLIENT: No. There’s something going on in that house and she won’t tell me what. I had talked to her on the phone like two weeks before Christmas and I said to her, ‘make sure you, when you’re out at the mall that you get your mother a Christmas card and we’ll mail it to her. ‘Okay, Nana, I will.’ Not a fucking Christmas card. Not even a phone call Christmas day.

THERAPIST: How did it go between the two of them when she was up?

CLIENT: Good. You know?

THERAPIST: So this was kind of out of the blue that she didn’t send a card or call.

CLIENT: Didn’t call. Didn’t call that Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.

THERAPIST: Not at all.

CLIENT: Not at all. So I says to Deborah, I said, ‘I hate to say this Deborah, but she’s not coming up in March.’ No. You know? I said, you know, when she finally did reach out to her mother -

THERAPIST: She did. She did finally contact her?

CLIENT: Ye

THERAPIST: Yeah. I think Deborah said that the only alternative she had was to call the police and make a well being check. Because if something happened to them –

CLIENT: Were you guys trying to call her at all?

THERAPIST: Oh yeah, we did. We left messages.

CLIENT: And she wasn’t getting back to you. Nope.

THERAPIST: What did you think was happening?

CLIENT: At that point I didn’t give a fuck I was so hurt.

THERAPIST: You thought it was her not getting back to you.

CLIENT: Yeah. Yes.

THERAPIST: Nothing else. Okay.

CLIENT: Yeah. But like Deborah says, if anything happens to them while they’re out on the – you know, the whole family’s out, no one’s going to call us and let us know. You know? So we’d be up shit’s creek, you know? So Darla wrote back in a letter, in the e-mail – ‘go ahead and call the police. It would only make matters worse here.’ So, I wrote back and I said, ‘are you father and Ella getting along?’ Is there a lot of fighting going on in the house?’ She wrote back, ‘no.’ And oh, I didn’t take my cell phone with me at all times. Shit, when she was up here, that cell phone was glued to her fucking ear, you know?

THERAPIST: Just to step back for a second – how was it when she left, between everybody? I mean, how was she with everybody?

CLIENT: Fine.

THERAPIST: Nothing –

CLIENT: No. She was looking forward to coming up for March vacation.

THERAPIST: Were you talking to her after that, before Christmas but after her visit?

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: How was it then?

CLIENT: Fine. She let me know when her school vacation started so I could get the tickets and stuff like that.

THERAPIST: Yeah. But then Christmas. You don’t hear a peep until finally Deborah writes.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Who did she write? She wrote –

CLIENT: To Darla.

THERAPIST: Darla. Darla wrote back.

CLIENT: Yeah. ‘Go ahead, it would only make matters worse.’ So what do you think –?

THERAPIST: But she didn’t say anything about not getting in contact with you or not talking?

CLIENT: No. You know?

THERAPIST: Oh boy.

CLIENT: So she said to Deborah, ‘I’m not home at all. I’m gone from the house all day and night.’ So I mean why isn’t she at home? Why does she feel it’s necessary to get her ass out of there? You know? Something is going on.

THERAPIST: Have you? When was the last time you’ve spoken to those two?

CLIENT: Ella? She’ll call me and talk to me.

THERAPIST: She will.

CLIENT: Yeah. You know. I don’t hear from Heath.

THERAPIST: How are you and Ella? What kind of terms are you on now?

CLIENT: Good. Good terms, you know?

THERAPIST: Did you talk to her over Christmas at all?

CLIENT: No. Deborah did.

THERAPIST: Deborah will talk to Ella?

CLIENT: Yeah. And Ella didn’t have anything to say.

THERAPIST: Do they occasionally talk about –

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: What – you called the house and Ella just happened to –

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: She was trying to reach Darla? [0:25:15]

CLIENT: No, because Darla has he own phone and Ella has her phone. You know, they all have phone numbers. So the house could be 00, Darla could be 01. One of the other girls is 02, one is 03, you know. So, Deborah called Ella to see if everything was alright with Darla. Ella said, ‘sure, fine.’ She’s out with her friends.

THERAPIST: Okay, okay.

CLIENT: But you know, I don’t know maybe if Ella is pissed that, you know, I didn’t do anything for her kids like I used to.

THERAPIST: Oh.

CLIENT: And of course she was very sneaky, my granddaughter. When she went home in November she went home with over $300. So we sent her Christmas cards like two weeks before Christmas because of how the post office works. Well, Heath kept them, I think, thinking that her money was in the Christmas cards. That there was a check in there for her. So he didn’t give them to her until Christmas day. Well, he must have shit when there was nothing in them. He probably said to Darla, what, your grandmother didn’t send you a check? And she said, ‘no, Nana gave me all my money in November when I came back up from school.’ You know? Whether Ella got pissed because I didn’t send her kids like $10, $20, $25 like I used to. But hey. I just don’t know what’s – you know?

THERAPIST: Yeah. Can you – well, do you know anything more about what’s going on with Darla?

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: Have you thought about calling and talking to Ella about it? Not in an accusatory way, but –

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: But hey I feel like – you know like calling up and saying, hey, boy, Darla’s been acting strange lately and how’s she doing down there?

CLIENT: Yeah. She can’t stand Heath’s mother anymore. But then again she never could. She’s just -

THERAPIST: Are you on good enough terms to ask Ella that?

CLIENT: Yeah, I am. But I don’t know – she’s not happy living there. When she leaves here she doesn’t want to go home. Does not want to go home.

THERAPIST: You know, who knows. It could be any number of things. It could be that it’s very hard for her to be apart from her mom and you know, might feel some anger towards Deborah. Who knows? But it sounds like there’s something going on with Darla for certain. I think you’re right.

CLIENT: Yes. There’s something.

THERAPIST: And maybe something at the home, too, that she’s –

CLIENT: I’ve asked her that and she will not give me a correct answer. She says no, it’s not, but she’s at the age now where she can emancipate herself, so I mean if that was me, I would have been out of the house like a long time ago. I mean like my father treated me like shit. I couldn’t wait to leave.

THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. Well I think the difference is that you would have done it. I don’t think Darla has the makeup that you have.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: I think you would have been daring enough to do it. I don’t know that Darla –

CLIENT: You know.

THERAPIST: And you know, you and your dad had some kind of – he really, really pissed you off enough for you to feel that you’d do that.

CLIENT: Ohh. I sent Heath a Christmas card.

THERAPIST: You did?

CLIENT: With pictures of Darla, a couple of pictures of Darla and I wrote on the back of the pictures, ‘this is Darla, and her age.’ And I said, ‘she wanted to call you when she was up, but she was afraid of rejection from you.’ I said, ‘but this is her cell phone number.’ You know, so that maybe he could contact her himself.

THERAPIST: Oh, that’s very sweet.

CLIENT: I don’t know if he did or not. I don’t think he did because Darla hasn’t mentioned it to her mother.

THERAPIST: And he never got in contact with you.

CLIENT: No. No. With my luck he probably ripped it up anyways. You know.

THERAPIST: Wow. But what about Darla not calling you?

CLIENT: No. No, she’s a – she knows that when her, when my mother died she was very upset that he did not go to his grandmother’s wake. Very upset over it. Didn’t want anything to do with them after that. And that’s the way, well then Deborah and Ella got into a big fight. Nobody heard from her anyway, you know. So, I don’t think he’s called because she would have said something.

THERAPIST: But I’m surprised Deborah not calling you, too, on Christmas. I guess I’m, you know, it made me think about, oh yeah, Heath, who was gone. You tried give him various olive branches for him to take to call and he doesn’t take it and you kind of know that. But this is very different for Darla not to call.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: And it must just kick up a lot of rejection for you.

CLIENT: Oh yeah. Yeah. You know?

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Yeah, I mean –

THERAPIST: Yeah. Bitter pill to swallow.

CLIENT: She knows where everything comes from – that goes to her is from me, you know. Not me and Deborah, you know? Because she knows her mother doesn’t have a pot to piss in. So it’s like, okay, not even a fuck them. You know, a five second phone call. Merry Christmas! You know?

THERAPIST: And you guys called her, too.

CLIENT: Yes. Yeah.

THERAPIST: Wow. Yeah.

CLIENT: And we called New Year’s Eve. You know?

THERAPIST: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.

CLIENT: You know?

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Nope. I says to Deborah, ‘I’m not buying the fucking plane ticket. I don’t give a shit if you tell her and tell her the reason why. You know?

THERAPIST: I guess there’s a couple of things. One is that, you know, something. What is going on with her not contacting you at all? Is she upset? Is she mad? Is she sad? Why wouldn’t she call? And two – if she, whatever she’s feeling, why can’t she call anyway?

CLIENT: Anyway? You know?

THERAPIST: Yeah, at least on Christmas. Yeah. And let you know.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: That she’s feeling –

CLIENT: And if your cell phone’s not working, Darla, use the house phone. [0:33:52]

THERAPIST: Yeah, you know that’s not what’s happening.

CLIENT: Right? Your boyfriend? Use his cell phone. So.

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: She just panicked. Pissed me off.

THERAPIST: Oh of course, yeah. Not calling you back on Christmas.

CLIENT: You know.

THERAPIST: Again, just out of the blue on you. Not like you guys weren’t getting along over Thanksgiving or there were some hard feelings or something.

CLIENT: You know? I said, shit, she leaves here with clothes that I buy her. She leaves here with money. You know. That’s like, hey.

THERAPIST: I’d be really curious to know what’s going on.

CLIENT: Yeah, you know? And I said to her so she’s a junior now. I said, never has any class pictures taken because Heath says he can’t afford to get them all done. I said, so, what’s wrong with Evelyn and (unclear)’s father paying for theirs?

THERAPIST: He does.

CLIENT: He asked their father – no, I don’t know if he does.

THERAPIST: Oh, okay.

CLIENT: But this is what Darla says all the time. So I says, well –

THERAPIST: Oh, you mean you would pay for them.

CLIENT: I would pay for Darla’s. I says, ‘you’re going to getting a yearbook. I says, I will pay for that. I said I want your pictures for your senior year. I said, if you want a class ring I’ll pay for that, Darla. I said, if you want to go to a prom, I’ll pay for your dress and whatever else you need. Just say so. You know? Because if Heath gives her that, ‘oh no, no, no, no.’ No, no way. You know?

THERAPIST: Yeah. He’s always wanted to make it that they can’t afford all of them. And the other two kids – if they’re not getting something from you then it’s not fair to them. So yeah.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Okay, okay.

CLIENT: I mean, fuck ‘em.

THERAPIST: Yeah, but he’s – there’s been something strange about that, too, about – I would imagine there’s some sort of feeling of boy, look at what she’s able to give them that we can’t and because she should be able to have things from you that are special that the other kids don’t have because she’s your granddaughter. And she’s got to have that be a part of her life. Yeah, I would at some point get to this with Darla. Why didn’t she call and what is happening? You know, this is really upsetting.

CLIENT: And I said to Deborah, tell her she’s not coming up in March, you know? I don’t even want to talk to her now on Facebook or on the phone.

THERAPIST: Because you feel rejected.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: Yeah. Who could blame you? I would say though, I don’t know if this is about her snubbing you. I mean it is a snub, there’s no doubt about it.

CLIENT: I want to know the reason why.

THERAPIST: The why.

CLIENT: I want the real reason why. [0:38:00]

THERAPIST: Yeah.

CLIENT: Is it because she’s got a boyfriend and Evelyn’s boyfriend broke up with Evelyn? I don’t know.

THERAPIST: Yeah. What is happening? Why can’t she tell you about it? Why can’t she call you and say Merry Christmas? Does she feel weird about it? Does she feel anything?

CLIENT: Yeah. Where were you all the rest of your time on your school vacation that you can’t call me?

THERAPIST: Exactly.

CLIENT: Oh, she goes, I don’t take my phone with me at all times. For Chrissakes, she couldn’t even go in the bathroom and take a pee without taking her cell phone with her, you know? She’d go to sleep and that cell phone would be right under the pillow.

THERAPIST: Yeah. That’s not good for her.

CLIENT: So I mean I don’t know if Ella and Heath are yelling, if they’re fighting between each other. You know? Or what. You know?

THERAPIST: If she had a good time on the trip.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: The other thing, I don’t know, you know, who knows, it might have really been hard for her to be apart from you and Deborah. It might have been too much to call.

CLIENT: You know. She could have come up for Christmas vacation. I don’t know why, you know, she didn’t want to or she couldn’t, you know. I just think Deborah – if she had come up for Christmas vacation she would still be here.

THERAPIST: Right. Because the flights, yeah.

CLIENT: I mean she even left clothes hanging in my closet that she says, oh, I’ll leave them here for when I come back. You know? Clothes with tags on them.

THERAPIST: I don’t know. I think there’s a lot to this story that we just don’t know.

CLIENT: Yeah. They won’t take her to see a psychiatrist which she does need help.

THERAPIST: She could really use somebody to talk to.

CLIENT: Yeah.

THERAPIST: She’s got a lot to sort out. There with her mom.

CLIENT: I don’t know how she concentrates on her grades. I really don’t.

THERAPIST: Not easily. Boy.

CLIENT: Or whether she’s afraid to tell me anything because she knows I’ll be on the next fucking plane down there.

THERAPIST: Could be. Could be. Could be it’s her way of telling her mom how mad she is by saying I’m not going to call at all. I mean – who knows?

CLIENT: If it’s because of Heath and Ella arguing or fighting and she’s involved in it somehow.

THERAPIST: She’s involved in it and she doesn’t want to bring you guys into it and cause a bigger kind of scene or something.

CLIENT: Oh yeah, you know?

THERAPIST: That could be. Yeah, I mean, remember the last time. It went well and Deborah –

CLIENT: I’d be the first one on the plane down there, taking her into the courthouse getting her emancipated. It would be bye-bye.

THERAPIST: Well, maybe that’s something, too, right?

CLIENT: You going to head out?

THERAPIST: Yeah. Hey, do you have – did you have any changes in your insurance? I know we were talking about that?

CLIENT: No.

THERAPIST: No. You still have the same ID number and all that stuff.

CLIENT: Yes.