Coach: Shannon, I’m so glad we have half an hour to check in. Thanks
for making this time available. I’ve really been wanting to check in
with you and hear about how guided reading has been going.
Teacher: Yeah, it’s hard to find time for this kind of stuff. [Teacher is
shuffling papers around the table].
Coach: Could you clarify what you mean by “this kind of stuff?”
T: Meeting with you. Coaching. I know I’m supposed to meet with you
but I have a lot to do. I know people think that because I’m
experienced I have it all together, but there’s always just so much to
do—so many endless demands from administration. How are we ever
supposed to get to teaching when we’re asked to do so much
paperwork and planning and phone calls home? This isn’t what kids
need and they’re not going to have good memories of first grade with
this new curriculum. [Teacher puts papers away and sits down and
faces me.] But anyway, let me answer your question so we can get
through this. Guided reading is going fine. Yeah, I think it’s going
good. I mean the small group I work with during guided reading time
is good, the rest of the kids are out of control, they’re crazy, but the
group that I work with does good.
C: I’m glad to hear you feel it’s going well. Tell me more about that.
What makes you feel it’s going well?
T: The kids are doing what they’re supposed to do. When they’re in
front of me, that’s what I told you already, they’re doing what I tell
them and they’re quiet. But the rest of them are out of control. I just
don’t know what to do about them.
C: Is that what you’d like to talk about now—the kids who are out of
control? Would that be the most helpful thing for us to think through
together?
T: Yeah, I think so.
C: Ok, why don’t you tell me about what you’d like to see them doing.
T: Well, I’d like to see them just being quiet and doing what they’re
supposed to do and I mean some of them are smart kids, they are.
During STEM time a few days ago, I saw one group of advanced kids
making these Bay Blades and they were really great—really big and
really good. There was another group that just had little ones, but my
advanced group really had good Bay Blades. I was impressed.
C: That’s great. It sounds like they’re creative and you’d like to see
more creativity from your students. Did I get that right?
T: Yeah. Why can’t they all be like that? Why do I have to teach them
to be creative? Those others were just making these simple little Bay
Blades like they always do.
C: So, Shannon, I’m curious about something. When you talk about
that group of “advanced kids,” I’m wondering—because Bay Blades
seem like a thing that usually boys are into—were all of those
“advanced kids” boys?
T: Um…Yeah…I guess so…Yeah, they were. [Silence for about 10
seconds]
C: Ok. Thanks for clarifying that. Could I ask you to call to mind a girl
in your class who you really like, who brings a smile to your face?
Perhaps a girl who is solidly performing—who doesn’t have any big
behavior or academic challenges?
T: Yeah, Maria. She’s a good girl, always smiling and happy. A good
student. [Teacher is smiling.]
C: Great—I can tell by the expression on your face that she makes you
feel happy, that you care about her. Tell me, what was Maria doing
during that time that the boys were building Bay Blades?
T: Oh, she was playing with blocks. Just building blocks. She was being
good.
C: Ok. So, let me ask you a question, Shannon, and I want you to just
say the first thing that comes to mind. Ok? [Teacher nods.] What do
you think Maria will be doing when she’s 23 years old?
T: [No hesitation.] Oh, she’ll probably be a mama of 4 or 5. Yeah,
probably 4 or 5 kids running around her house.
C: Ok. [A few seconds of silence.] Shannon, would you be willing to
explore your thinking behind this? [Teacher nods.] I’m curious why
you think that’s what she’ll be doing? Where does that idea come
from?
T: Well, because that’s what’s all around here! That’s what she sees!
Her mama had 4 or 5 by 23, and her grandmother, and her aunts—
I’ve got her cousin in my class too—that’s just what’s around. I mean
she’s a smart kid, but that’s what’s around.
C: Ok, I understand how you could come to that conclusion. So, let me
ask—what do you think her life might be like if that’s her situation
when she’s 23?
T: Well, she’s not going to living in a nice place, it’s not going to be
easy for her. She’ll probably be living around ____ neighborhood
and…well, you know, it’s not going to be good. That’s a bad area.
C: Ok. You say she’s a smart kid—can you tell me more about the
strengths you see in her? Tell me about that.
T: Well, she’s really good at math. And she always follows directions.
She’s the one who tells other kids to quiet down and pay attention
when I’m trying to get their attention. I don’t even have to ask her to
sit quiet and on her behind, she just does it.
C: Oh, that’s great to hear. Wow, she’s good at math, that’s great.
Look, I know you really care about your students—you’ve said that so
many times—I’m wondering if you would be willing to try something
that might be a little difficult, but if you’d try this—could we create an
alternate reality for Maria? A different life at 23? Could we just try
doing that—I know you’re a creative person and you have a great
imagination.
T: Well, ok.
C: Great! So what might be a different reality for Maria at 23? One
where she doesn’t have 4 or 5 children?
T: Well, you mean like, maybe she has a job? Or a career?
C: Uh huh.
T: I guess she could be a teacher. She’s always my little helper when I
have a sub—she’ll tell the sub what to do. She’s bossy and likes to
take charge of things.
C: Great, so she has leadership skills—that’s really great. There’s a lot
we could do with that disposition. She sounds responsible also.
T: Yeah, she is. I guess she could be an accountant also because she’s
good at math. And she follows rules. I guess so. [The tone of her voice
is flat]
C: Ok, an accountant. Remember a couple months ago you were
telling me about how she loves animals and she has stickers of
puppies and kittens all over her note book? Maybe she could be a
veterinarian?
T: Yeah, she could! Or a doctor. She could be a doctor. [Her voice
becomes more lively here]
C: A doctor! Wow, that would be exciting. And what might her life be
like then, if she becomes a doctor?
T: She’ll be living in a nicer area. Maybe she’ll be getting married when
she’s 27 or 28, and thinking about having kids.
C: That would be an easier future for her, wouldn’t it?
T: [Nods]
C: So how do you want Maria to remember you? Her first grade
teacher?
T: Me? How do I want her to remember me?
C: Yeah, when she’s 26 or 27 and remembering you, what do you
want her to say to her fiancé about you?
T: That I was fun. I was the fun teacher—and so she’ll invite me to her
wedding. Because I’ll be fun!
C: Wouldn’t that be amazing? If you could attend her wedding and see
her, as a doctor, getting married…Ok, so if she becomes a teacher, or
accountant or doctor, what might she say about you?
T: That…That….I don’t know.
C: Ok, what about, if she says, “I remember that during STEM time,
Ms. M gave us stuff to do that I really liked and it helped me learn
some skills and get ideas about what I could be when I grow up.”
T: [Smiling] That would be good. But they took away my
housekeeping stuff—I can’t use that any more during STEM. That’s
what she would like.
C: I’m not clear about what you’re talking about. Can you explain?
T: I used to have housekeeping stuff that girls like her liked to play
with—you know, toy vacuum cleaners and stuff like that. If Maria had
those things to play with, she could learn some valuable skills. Now I
can’t even use that.
C: Shannon. [Tone of voice gets serious] Come on. I’m asking you to
imagine a different reality for Maria—one where she becomes a
doctor, as you identified as a possibility. I really want you to try this,
just give it a shot. Imagine something different for her. Could you try
that?
T: [Sheepishly] Ok. I can.
C: So what if when she’s 27, Maria says this about you: “Ms. M gave
me these challenging puzzles to figure out and I had to do math and
measuring and observations and they really made me think about
how things work. That’s when I first started wanting to be a doctor—
because I wanted to learn how our bodies work—and Ms. M told me I
could be anything I wanted to be.”
T: That would be good. That would be great if she said that about me.
[Teacher’s eyes drop and her shoulders hunch in. Silence for a few
seconds]
C: What’s going on, Shannon?
T: [Looks up, her eyes are welling with tears, she shakes her head.]
C: I can see that you’re experiencing some emotions. Do you want to
talk about what’s going on?
T: It’s just that…I don’t know. I wish Maria would say that about me,
but I don’t know how that could happen. Your questions are just
making me feel a lot right now. I don’t know how to respond.
C: Ok, I appreciate you sharing that with me. Thank you for your
honesty. Shannon, what if I told you that together, I think we could
work towards this vision for Maria? At least the part that you can
control—what happens in your classroom, what materials you give
her to learn from?
T: I’m just not used to getting help from other people.
C: I hear that. I know how that can be. What’s the scariest part of all of
this?
T: I just…I’m…I don’t know how to teach that STEM stuff. We had a
two-day training on it, I was out sick for one of those days, it’s really
different from how I learned to teach.
C: It is, I know. How about if we start with visiting Gregorio’s class at
____ school? He’s been implementing some of this curriculum and his
kids come from the same neighborhood as yours do. Could I set up a
field trip for us?
T: That would be good.
C: Why don’t we start to sketch out a plan for the supports you need
in order to teach STEM? Let’s brainstorm ideas, and I’ll help you figure
out where you’ll get the support from. How does that sound?
T: Ok. But I don’t think I can actually teach STEM until the kids get
their behavior under control. They’re wild when they come in here.
C: Is that something you feel you can have an influence on? Is there
anything you can do about that or is it totally out of your control?
T: I can. I know. I can have an influence.
C: Ok, let’s plan for that too. As your coach, I do want to push you like
this—if it’s ok with you—so that you can reach that vision for how
Maria will remember you as a teacher. Is it ok if I do that? If I push
you?
T: I guess so. I don’t really have any choice do I?
C: How about if we try and see how it goes. Let’s just give this
coaching thing a shot and see what happens. I think we should start
today with going through the materials you already have in your
class. How about that? Can we start that right now?
T: Yes, I’ve been needing to clean out my closet, so let’s do that….